index.md, before:

---
title: Home
layout: home
order: title
---

# About

Our interests range from 3D gravity and magnetic inversion, forward modeling,
and open-source software development.
Read more about [our members](/people),
the [research we do](/research),
and some of our [published papers](/papers).

In the spirit of **open-science** and **reproducibility**,
we try to provide the source code and data used for our papers.
Most new papers will have links to a
[GitHub repository](http://github.com/pinga-lab)
for code and a [DOI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier)
(from [figshare](http://figshare.com/) or [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/))
for data and other supplementary material.

We are based at the
[Observatório Nacional](http://www.on.br/) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,
and the
[University of Hawaii at Manoa](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/GG/) in Honolulu,
USA.

# Contact

Interested in joining our research group?
Do you have questions about our research?
Want to get in touch to start a collaboration?

Leave a comment on our [public chat room](https://gitter.im/pinga-lab/contact)
or write to one of the [professors and researchers](/people).

Commit message:

Update affiliation of Leo to Liverpool

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
layout: home
order: title
---

# About

Our interests range from 3D gravity and magnetic inversion, forward modeling,
and open-source software development.
Read more about [our members](/people),
the [research we do](/research),
and some of our [published papers](/papers).

In the spirit of **open-science** and **reproducibility**,
we try to provide the source code and data used for our papers.
Most new papers will have links to a
[GitHub repository](http://github.com/pinga-lab)
for code and a [DOI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier)
(from [figshare](http://figshare.com/) or [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/))
for data and other supplementary material.

We are an international *virtual* lab with members based at the
[Observatório Nacional](http://www.on.br/) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,
and the
[University of Liverpool](https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/earth-ocean-and-ecological-sciences/), United Kingdom.

# Contact

Interested in joining our research group?
Do you have questions about our research?
Want to get in touch to start a collaboration?

Leave a comment on our [public chat room](https://gitter.im/pinga-lab/contact)
or write to one of the [professors and researchers](/people).
