content/papers/paper-mag-dir-2015.md, before:

title: Estimation of the total magnetization direction of approximately spherical bodies
date: 01-04-2015
slug: paper-mag-dir-2015
journal: Nonlinear Processes in Geophysics
doi: 10.5194/npgd-1-1465-2014
repository: birocoles/Total-magnetization-of-spherical-bodies
tags: OA, review
author: Oliveira Jr, V. C., D. P. Sales, V. C. F. Barbosa, and L. Uieda
citation: Oliveira Jr, V. C., D. P. Sales, V. C. F. Barbosa, and L. Uieda (2014), Estimation of the total magnetization direction of approximately spherical bodies, Nonlinear Processes in Geophysics

## Review

This paper is currently under open peer-review. Follow the discussion
from
[the publishers
site](http://www.nonlin-processes-geophys-discuss.net/1/1465/2014/npgd-1-1465-2014-discussion.html).

## Abstract

We have developed a fast total-field anomaly inversion to estimate the
magnetization direction of multiple sources with approximately spherical shape
and known centres. Our method can be applied to interpret multiple sources with
different magnetization directions. It neither requires the prior computation
of any transformation like reduction to the pole nor the use of regularly
spaced data on a horizontal grid. The method contains flexibility to be
implemented as a linear or non-linear inverse problem, which results,
respectively, in a least-squares or robust estimate of the components of the
magnetization vector of the sources. Applications to synthetic data show the
robustness of our method against interfering anomalies and errors in the
location of the sources' centre. Besides, we show the feasibility of applying
the upward continuation to interpret non-spherical sources. Applications to
field data over the Goiás Alkaline Province (GAP), Brazil, show the good
performance of our method in estimating geological meaningful magnetization
directions. The results obtained for a region of the GAP, near from the
alkaline complex of Diorama, suggest the presence of non-outcropping sources
marked by strong remanent magnetization with inclination and declination close
to -70.35° and -19.81°, respectively. This estimated magnetization direction
leads to predominantly positive reduced-to-the-pole anomalies, even for other
region of the GAP, in the alkaline complex of Montes Claros de Goiás. These
results show that the non-outcropping sources near from the alkaline complex of
Diorama have almost the same magnetization direction of that ones in the
alkaline complex of Montes Claros de Goiás, strongly suggesting that these
sources have emplaced the crust almost within the same geological time
interval.

## Bibtex

    @article{oliveira2014,
        title = {Estimation of the total magnetization direction of approximately spherical bodies},
        volume = {1},
        issn = {2198-5634},
        doi = {10.5194/npgd-1-1465-2014},
        number = {2},
        journal = {Nonlin. Processes Geophys. Discuss.},
        author = {Oliveira Jr., V. C. and Sales, D. P. and Barbosa, V. C. F. and Uieda, L.},
        month = sep,
        year = {2014},
        pages = {1465--1507},
    }

Commit message:

Repo in @pinga-lab and link to supp in Zenodo

content/papers/paper-mag-dir-2015.md, after:

title: Estimation of the total magnetization direction of approximately spherical bodies
date: 01-04-2015
slug: paper-mag-dir-2015
journal: Nonlinear Processes in Geophysics
doi: 10.5194/npgd-1-1465-2014
repository: pinga-lab/Total-magnetization-of-spherical-bodies
supplement: 10.5281/zenodo.16191
tags: OA, review
author: Oliveira Jr, V. C., D. P. Sales, V. C. F. Barbosa, and L. Uieda
citation: Oliveira Jr, V. C., D. P. Sales, V. C. F. Barbosa, and L. Uieda (2014), Estimation of the total magnetization direction of approximately spherical bodies, Nonlinear Processes in Geophysics

## Abstract

We have developed a fast total-field anomaly inversion to estimate the
magnetization direction of multiple sources with approximately spherical shape
and known centres. Our method can be applied to interpret multiple sources with
different magnetization directions. It neither requires the prior computation
of any transformation like reduction to the pole nor the use of regularly
spaced data on a horizontal grid. The method contains flexibility to be
implemented as a linear or non-linear inverse problem, which results,
respectively, in a least-squares or robust estimate of the components of the
magnetization vector of the sources. Applications to synthetic data show the
robustness of our method against interfering anomalies and errors in the
location of the sources' centre. Besides, we show the feasibility of applying
the upward continuation to interpret non-spherical sources. Applications to
field data over the Goiás Alkaline Province (GAP), Brazil, show the good
performance of our method in estimating geological meaningful magnetization
directions. The results obtained for a region of the GAP, near from the
alkaline complex of Diorama, suggest the presence of non-outcropping sources
marked by strong remanent magnetization with inclination and declination close
to -70.35° and -19.81°, respectively. This estimated magnetization direction
leads to predominantly positive reduced-to-the-pole anomalies, even for other
region of the GAP, in the alkaline complex of Montes Claros de Goiás. These
results show that the non-outcropping sources near from the alkaline complex of
Diorama have almost the same magnetization direction of that ones in the
alkaline complex of Montes Claros de Goiás, strongly suggesting that these
sources have emplaced the crust almost within the same geological time
interval.

## Review

This paper has undergone open peer-review. Follow the discussion from
[the publishers site](http://www.nonlin-processes-geophys-discuss.net/1/1465/2014/npgd-1-1465-2014-discussion.html).

## Bibtex

    @article{oliveira2014,
        title = {Estimation of the total magnetization direction of approximately spherical bodies},
        volume = {1},
        issn = {2198-5634},
        doi = {10.5194/npgd-1-1465-2014},
        number = {2},
        journal = {Nonlin. Processes Geophys. Discuss.},
        author = {Oliveira Jr., V. C. and Sales, D. P. and Barbosa, V. C. F. and Uieda, L.},
        month = sep,
        year = {2014},
        pages = {1465--1507},
    }
