people/uieda.md, before:

---
title: Leonardo Uieda
date: 2016-01-03
institution: Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
location: Rio de Janeiro, Brasil
position: Professor
lattes: http://lattes.cnpq.br/8939551682050504
website: http://www.leouieda.com
picture: uieda.jpg
github: leouieda
email: leouieda@gmail.com
email2: uieda@hawaii.edu
scholar: http://scholar.google.com.br/citations?user=qfmPrUEAAAAJ
researcherid: G-3258-2012
researchgate: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Leonardo_Uieda
orcid: 0000-0001-6123-9515
impactstory: 0000-0001-6123-9515
layout: person
---

# About

I'm a geophysicist working mainly on inverse problems in gravity and magnetics.

Starting February 2014,
I'm working as Professor of Geophysics at the
<a href="http://www.uerj.br">Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro</a>,
Brazil.
I teach the "Intro to Geophysics" courses to Geology students,
<a href="http://www.leouieda.com/teaching/">among others</a>.
A typical day at work usually involves a lot of
<a href="http://www.leouieda.com/software">open-source software development</a>,
for both research and teaching.
My language of choice is [Python](https://www.python.org/).
I'm one of the founders and main developer of
[Fatiando a Terra](http://www.fatiando.org).

In the spirit of open-science,
I share all of the research and
teaching material online under permissive licenses.
You'll find links to source code, images, lessons, etc, scattered around
my [personal website](http://www.leouieda.com)
(look for the <i class="fa fa-github-square fa-fw"></i> icon).

Follow me on [Twitter (@leouieda)](https://twitter.com/leouieda)
and [Github (@leouieda)](https://github.com/leouieda)
for updates on teaching and research, random things from the world of academia,
etc.

Commit message:

Update my information and my students (#45)
Mark students from UERJ as former and update my affiliation to UH.

Made some tweaks to the templates to make it work for other position
titles other than Researcher or Professor. Also removed the break
between profs and students. Just separate current and former. Profs are
highlighted by keeping them first on the list (using the page date to
sort).

people/uieda.md, after:

---
title: Leonardo Uieda
date: 2010-01-03
institution: University of Hawaii at Manoa
location: Honolulu, HI, USA
position: Research Affiliate
lattes: http://lattes.cnpq.br/8939551682050504
website: http://www.leouieda.com
picture: uieda.jpg
github: leouieda
email: leouieda@gmail.com
email2: uieda@hawaii.edu
scholar: http://scholar.google.com.br/citations?user=qfmPrUEAAAAJ
researcherid: G-3258-2012
researchgate: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Leonardo_Uieda
orcid: 0000-0001-6123-9515
impactstory: 0000-0001-6123-9515
layout: person
---

# About

I am currently working at the
[University of Hawaii at Manoa](http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/GG/index.html)
where I'm developing the
[Python bindings for the Generic Mapping Tools](https://www.gmtpython.xyz/)
and doing research in inverse problems and interpolation of geodetic data.
Prior to coming here, I worked for 4 years as Assistant Professor of Geophysics
at the [Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (UERJ)](http://www.uerj.br),
Brazil.
There, I developed and taught courses in geophysics and
programming and numerical methods.
I received my PhD from the Observatório Nacional, Brazil, for the
creation of the open-source software [Tesseroid](http://www.tesseroids.org) and
[Fatiando a Terra](https://www.fatiando.org/) and for my
[work on large-scale gravity inversion][/papers/paper-moho-inversion-tesseroids-2016].

My research focuses on inverse problems in potential field
geophysics with a heavy dose of open-source software development.
I do my best to bring more openness to the scientific process
and to train the next generation of scientists in the best practices of
reproducible computational experiments.

In the spirit of open-science,
I share all of the research and
teaching material online under permissive licenses.
You'll find links to source code, images, lessons, etc,
throughout my [personal website](http://www.leouieda.com).

Follow me on [Twitter (@leouieda)](https://twitter.com/leouieda)
and [Github (@leouieda)](https://github.com/leouieda)
for updates on teaching and research, random things from the world of academia,
etc.
