papers/paper-quadrilatero2-2016.md, before:

---
title: "How two gravity-gradient inversion methods can be used to reveal different geologic features of ore deposit — A case study from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil)"
date: 2016-04-23
author: carlos, uieda, barbosa
pdf: paper-quadrilatero2-2016.pdf
journal: Journal of Applied Geophysics
doi: 10.1016/j.jappgeo.2016.04.011
citation: "Carlos, D. U., L. Uieda, and V. C. F. Barbosa (2016), How two gravity-gradient inversion methods can be used to reveal different geologic features of ore deposit — A case study from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil), Journal of Applied Geophysics, doi:10.1016/j.jappgeo.2016.04.011."
layout: publication
---


# Abstract

Airborne gravity gradiometry data have been recently used in mining surveys to
map the 3D geometry of ore deposits. This task can be achieved by different
gravity-gradient inversion methods, many of which use a voxel-based
discretization of the Earth's subsurface. To produce a unique and stable
solution, an inversion method introduces particular constraints. One
constraining inversion introduces a depth-weighting function in the first-order
Tikhonov regularization imposing a smoothing on the density-contrast
distributions that are not restricted to near-surface regions. Another
gravity-gradient inversion, the method of planting anomalous densities, imposes
compactness and sharp boundaries on the density-contrast distributions. We used
these two inversion methods to invert the airborne gravity-gradient data over
the iron-ore deposit at the southern flank of the Gandarela syncline in
Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil). Because these methods differ from each other
in the particular constraint used, the estimated 3D density-contrast
distributions reveal different geologic features of ore deposit. The
depth-weighting smoothing inversion reveals variable dip directions along the
strike of the retrieved iron-ore body. The planting anomalous density inversion
estimates a compact iron-ore mass with a single density contrast, which reveals
a variable volume of the iron ore along its strike increasing towards the hinge
zone of the Gandarela syncline which is the zone of maximum compression. The
combination of the geologic features inferred from each estimate leads to a
synergistic effect, revealing that the iron-ore deposit is strongly controlled
by the Gandarela syncline.

Commit message:

Add related_papers and related_thesis metadata
These entries are used to link together papers and thesis that are
related.
I have put the links to the papers and thesis that should be linked.

papers/paper-quadrilatero2-2016.md, after:

---
title: "How two gravity-gradient inversion methods can be used to reveal different geologic features of ore deposit — A case study from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil)"
date: 2016-04-23
author: carlos, uieda, barbosa
pdf: paper-quadrilatero2-2016.pdf
journal: Journal of Applied Geophysics
doi: 10.1016/j.jappgeo.2016.04.011
citation: "Carlos, D. U., L. Uieda, and V. C. F. Barbosa (2016), How two gravity-gradient inversion methods can be used to reveal different geologic features of ore deposit — A case study from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil), Journal of Applied Geophysics, doi:10.1016/j.jappgeo.2016.04.011."
related_thesis: carlos-phd
related_papers: paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012,paper-quadrilatero-2014
layout: publication
---

# Open-source implementation

This paper uses the planting inversion proposed in
[/papers/paper-planting-anomalous-densities-2012].
We used the implementation in the open-source
[Fatiando a Terra](http://www.fatiando.org) Python library
(the `fatiando.gravmag.harvester` module).

# Abstract

Airborne gravity gradiometry data have been recently used in mining surveys to
map the 3D geometry of ore deposits. This task can be achieved by different
gravity-gradient inversion methods, many of which use a voxel-based
discretization of the Earth's subsurface. To produce a unique and stable
solution, an inversion method introduces particular constraints. One
constraining inversion introduces a depth-weighting function in the first-order
Tikhonov regularization imposing a smoothing on the density-contrast
distributions that are not restricted to near-surface regions. Another
gravity-gradient inversion, the method of planting anomalous densities, imposes
compactness and sharp boundaries on the density-contrast distributions. We used
these two inversion methods to invert the airborne gravity-gradient data over
the iron-ore deposit at the southern flank of the Gandarela syncline in
Quadrilátero Ferrífero (Brazil). Because these methods differ from each other
in the particular constraint used, the estimated 3D density-contrast
distributions reveal different geologic features of ore deposit. The
depth-weighting smoothing inversion reveals variable dip directions along the
strike of the retrieved iron-ore body. The planting anomalous density inversion
estimates a compact iron-ore mass with a single density contrast, which reveals
a variable volume of the iron ore along its strike increasing towards the hinge
zone of the Gandarela syncline which is the zone of maximum compression. The
combination of the geologic features inferred from each estimate leads to a
synergistic effect, revealing that the iron-ore deposit is strongly controlled
by the Gandarela syncline.
