thesis/andre-msc.md, before:

---
title: "Inversao magnética 3D para estimar a distribuiçao de magnetização de uma amostra de rocha"
date: 2016-03-18
period: 2014-2016
author: andre
advisor: oliveira-jr
institution: Observatório Nacional
pdf: andre-msc.pdf
level: MSc
layout: publication
---

# Abstract

Nas últimas décadas, o uso de ténicas de microscopia magnética por varredura
tem crescido em áreas como o paleomagnetismo e o magnetismo de rocha.
Diferentemente dos magnetômetros usuais, microscópios magnéticos produzem mapas
de alta resolução da componente vertical do campo de indução magnética sobre a
superfície de uma amostra. Estes dados de alta resolução podem ser utilizados
para estimar a distribuição de magnetização interna de uma amostra de rocha
através de inversão. Estudos anteriores estimaram a distribuição de
magnetização invertendo dados magnéticos medidos somente em um plano acima da
amostra. Neste trabalho apresentamos um novo método no domínio do tempo para
inverter dados de indução magnética medidos sobre quatro planos ao redor da
amostra. Presumimos que a distribuição de magnetização interna da amostra varia
ao longo de um eixo. O método aproxima a amostra por um modelo interpretativo
composto por um arranjo unidimensional de prismas retangulares com magnetização
uniforme. As componentes Cartesianas do vetor magnetização de cada um destes
prismas são os parâmetros que serão estimados resolvendo um problema inverso
linear. Testes com dados sintéticos mostram a performance do método em
recuperar complexas distribuições de magnetização mesmo na presença de
heterogeneidades. Aplicamos também o método para inverter dados magnéticos
adquiridos experimentalmente produzidos por uma amostra fabricada em
laboratório. Os resultados mostram que, mesmo na aparente presença de ruído na
posição do sensor do equipamento, o método foi capaz de recuperar uma
distribuição de magnetização consistente com a magnetização anisterética
remanente induzida na amostra.

Commit message:

Phd theses (#37)
* replace the pdf file of my phd thesis and correct small error in text

* replace the pdf of the melo's thesis and include the link to Sucupira platform

* replace the pdf file of carlos' thesis, include the Sucupira link, include the generated paper

* include the pdf file and abstract of the siqueira's thesis

* include the Sucupira link

* include the Sucupira link and the related paper

* include the sucupira link and the abstract in Andre's thesis

* Add metadata entry for a link to Sucupira

You only need to specify the ID number at the end of the Sucupira entry
link for a thesis. The template will add a link to the Info side bar.

* Add related_papers and related_thesis metadata

These entries are used to link together papers and thesis that are
related.
I have put the links to the papers and thesis that should be linked.

thesis/andre-msc.md, after:

---
title: "Inversao magnética 3D para estimar a distribuiçao de magnetização de uma amostra de rocha"
date: 2016-03-18
period: 2014-2016
author: andre
advisor: oliveira-jr
institution: Observatório Nacional
pdf: andre-msc.pdf
level: MSc
sucupira: 3508664
related_papers: paper-magnetization-rock-sample-2016
layout: publication
---

# Abstract

Over the last decades, scanning magnetic microscopy techniques have
been increasingly used in paleomagnetism and rock magnetism. Different
from standard paleomagnetic magnetometers, scanning magnetic microscopes
produce high-resolution maps of the vertical component of the magnetic
induction field on a plane located over the sample. These high-resolution
magnetic maps can be used for estimating the magnetization distribution
within a rock sample by inversion. Previous studies have estimated the
magnetization distribution within rock samples by inverting the magnetic
data measured on a plane above the sample. Here we present a new spacial
domain method for inverting the magnetic induction measured on four planes
around the sample in order to retrieve its internal magnetization
distribution. We have presumed that internal magnetization distribution
of the sample varies along one of its axes. Our method approximates the
sample geometry by an interpretation model composed of a one-dimensional
array of juxtaposed rectangular prisms with uniform magnetization. The
Cartesian components of the magnetization vector within each rectangular
prism are the parameters to be estimated by solving linear inverse problem.
Tests with synthetic data show the performance of our method in retrieving
complex magnetization distribution even in the presence of magnetization
heterogeneities. We have also applied our method to invert experimentally
measured magnetic data produced by a highly-magnetized synthetic sample that
was manufacturated in laboratory. The results show that, even in the
presence of apparent position noise, our method was able to retrieve
magnetization distribuition consistent with the anhysteretic remanence
magnetization induced in the sample.
