thesis/carlos-phd.md, before:

---
title: "Aplicação de Processamento e Inversão Geofísica 3D de Dados de Aerogradiometria da Gravidade na Estimação da Estrutura do Minério de Ferro no Sinclinal Gandarela - Quadrilátero Ferrífero - Minas Gerais"
date: 2013-12-18
period: 2010-2013
author: carlos
advisor: barbosa
institution: Observatório Nacional
pdf: carlos-phd.pdf
level: PhD
layout: publication
---

# Abstract

The Quadrilátero Ferrífero in southeastern Brazil hosts one of the largest
concentrations of lateritic iron ore deposits in the world. Our study area is
over the southern flank of the Gandarela syncline which is one of the regional
synclines of the Quadrilátero Ferrífero. The Gandarela syncline is considered
the Brazilian megastructure with the highest perspectives for iron ore
exploration. Most of the iron ore deposits from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero are
non-outcropping bodies hosted in the oxidized, metamorphosed and
heterogeneously deformed banded iron formations. Therefore, the assessment of
the 3D geometry of the iron body is of the utmost importance for estimating
reserves and production development planning. We inverted the airborne
gravity-gradient data from the study area by using two inversion methods to
estimate the 3D density-contrast distribution which retrieves the shape of the
iron ore mineralization. The highest values of the estimated density contrast
agree reasonably well with the information provided from the lithologic logging
data of drill holes and retrieve a northeast-elongated iron formation in
agreement with the previous geologic mapping of the study area. The volume of
the estimated iron body varies along its strike showing a southwestward
increase. The presence of a large volume of iron ore in the southwest portion
of the study area may be due to the hinge zone of the Gandarela syncline, which
is the zone of maximum compression. The estimated iron ore mass discloses
variable dip directions. In the southernmost, central and northernmost portions
of the study area, the estimated iron body dips, respectively, inwards,
vertically and outwards with respect to the syncline axis. Because one of the
inversion methods estimates a 3D compact iron ore body with density contrast of
0.75 g/cm 3 , then it allows estimating the volume of this body in 965 million
m 3 . By considering that this estimated

Commit message:

replace the pdf file of carlos' thesis, include the Sucupira link, include the generated paper

thesis/carlos-phd.md, after:

---
title: "Aplicação de Processamento e Inversão Geofísica 3D de Dados de Aerogradiometria da Gravidade na Estimação da Estrutura do Minério de Ferro no Sinclinal Gandarela - Quadrilátero Ferrífero - Minas Gerais"
date: 2013-12-18
period: 2010-2013
author: carlos
advisor: barbosa
institution: Observatório Nacional
pdf: carlos-phd.pdf
level: PhD
layout: publication
---

# About

Papers produced from this research:

* [/papers/paper-quadrilatero-2014]
* [/papers/paper-quadrilatero2-2016]

Additional information (in portuguese) can be found at the
[Sucupira platform](https://sucupira.capes.gov.br/sucupira/public/consultas/coleta/trabalhoConclusao/viewTrabalhoConclusao.jsf?popup=true&id_trabalho=154585).

# Abstract

The Quadrilátero Ferrífero in southeastern Brazil hosts one of the largest
concentrations of lateritic iron ore deposits in the world. Our study area is
over the southern flank of the Gandarela syncline which is one of the regional
synclines of the Quadrilátero Ferrífero. The Gandarela syncline is considered
the Brazilian megastructure with the highest perspectives for iron ore
exploration. Most of the iron ore deposits from the Quadrilátero Ferrífero are
non-outcropping bodies hosted in the oxidized, metamorphosed and
heterogeneously deformed banded iron formations. Therefore, the assessment of
the 3D geometry of the iron body is of the utmost importance for estimating
reserves and production development planning. We inverted the airborne
gravity-gradient data from the study area by using two inversion methods to
estimate the 3D density-contrast distribution which retrieves the shape of the
iron ore mineralization. The highest values of the estimated density contrast
agree reasonably well with the information provided from the lithologic logging
data of drill holes and retrieve a northeast-elongated iron formation in
agreement with the previous geologic mapping of the study area. The volume of
the estimated iron body varies along its strike showing a southwestward
increase. The presence of a large volume of iron ore in the southwest portion
of the study area may be due to the hinge zone of the Gandarela syncline, which
is the zone of maximum compression. The estimated iron ore mass discloses
variable dip directions. In the southernmost, central and northernmost portions
of the study area, the estimated iron body dips, respectively, inwards,
vertically and outwards with respect to the syncline axis. Because one of the
inversion methods estimates a 3D compact iron ore body with density contrast of
0.75 g/cm<sup>3</sup> , then it allows estimating the volume of this body in 965 million
m<sup>3</sup>. By considering that this estimated
