---
title: "Estimativa do vetor de magnetização total de corpos aproximadamente esféricos"
date: 2014-08-28
period: 2012-2014
author: daiana
advisor: oliveira-jr
coadvisor: barbosa
institution: Observatório Nacional
pdf: daiana-msc.pdf
level: MSc
sucupira: 1334863
related_papers: paper-mag-dir-2015
related_grants: faperj-inst-2014-oliveira-jr,cnpq-universal-2014-oliveira-jr
layout: publication
---

# Abstract

We present a new computationally effective method to estimate the magnetization
direction from multiple sources, with roughly spherical center and known by the
inversion of total field anomaly produced by these format. Multiple sources can
have different directions of magnetization and the method can be applied
directly to total failure data field, which may be irregularly spaced on
corrugated surfaces. The method is based on the solution of a linear inverse
problem to estimate the magnetization vector components of the magnetic
sources. Tests with synthetic data show a good performance in recovering the
direction of true magnetization, respecting the assumptions of our method. The
tests that violate the premise of the knowledge of the center of the fountain
show two features: i) if there are errors in the horizontal location of the
center of the fountain, our method is not able to recover the true direction of
magnetization, and ii) if there are errors in location vertical center of the
fountain, our method is able to recover the true direction of magnetization.
Additional testing shows that synthetic upward continuation can be useful to
allow application of our method in the interpretation of non-spherical bodies.
The results obtained by applying our method to real data on a region of Goiás
Alkaline Province (PAGO), near the city of Diorama, suggest the presence of
non-outcropping sources with strong remanent magnetization. The direction of
magnetization estimated for this region implies a total field anomaly reduced
to predominantly positive pole.  This same magnetization direction also
produces anomalies prevailing field overall positive in another region of PAGO,
called alkaline complex of Montes Claros de Goiás. These results show that
non-outcropping sources in the region of Diorama have practically the same
magnetization direction of those alkaline complex in Montes Claros de Goiás,
suggesting that these sources intruded the crust inside almost the same range
of geological time. We present a new method computationally effective for
estimating the magnetization direction from multiple sources with roughly
spherical center and known by the inversion of total field anomaly produced by
these format. The multiple sources may have different directions of
magnetization, and the method can be applied directly to total failure data
field, which may be spaced irregularly over undulating surfaces. The method is
based on solving a linear inverse problem to estimate the magnetization vector
components of the mag- netic sources. Tests with synthetic data respecting the
assumptions of our method perform well in recovering the true direction of
magnetization. The tests that violate the premise of the knowledge of the
center of the fountain show two features: i) if there are errors in the
horizontal location of the center of the fountain, our method is not able to
recover the true direction of magnetization, and ii) if there are errors in
location vertical center of the fountain, our method is able to recover the
true direction of magnetization. Additional testing shows that synthetic upward
continuation can be useful to allow application of our method in the
interpretation of non-spherical bodies. The results obtained by applying our
method to real data on a region of Goiás Alkaline Province (PAGO), near the
city of Diorama, suggest the presence of non-outcropping sources with strong
remanent magnetization. The direction of magnetization estimated for this
region implies a total field anomaly reduced to predominantly positive pole.
With the same magnetization direction also produces anomalies prevailing field
overall positive in another region of PAGO, called alkaline complex of Montes
Claros de Goiás. These results show that non-outcropping sources in the region
of Diorama have practically the same magnetization direction those in the
alkaline complex of Montes Claros de Goiás, suggesting that these sources
intruded the crust inside almost the same interval of geologic time.
