---
title: "Estimando a Natureza, as Posições Horizontais e Verticais de Fontes 3D Usando a Deconvolução de Euler"
date: 2012-12-14
period: 2010-2012
author: melo
advisor: barbosa
institution: Observatório Nacional
pdf: melo-msc.pdf
level: MSc
layout: publication
---

# Abstract

We present a new method that drastically reduces the number of the source
location estimates in 3D Euler deconvolution to one only. Our method is
grounded on the analytical estimators of the base level and of the horizontal
and vertical source positions in 3D Euler deconvolution as a function of the x
- and y -coordinates of the observations. By assuming any tentative structural
index (defining the geometry of the sources), our method automatically locates
on the maps of the horizontal coordinate estimates plateaus, indicating
consistent estimates that are very close to the true corresponding coordinates.
These plateaus are located at the neighborhood of the highest values of the
anomaly and show a contrasting behavior with those estimates which form
inclined planes at the anomaly borders. The plateaus are automatically located
on the maps of the horizontal coordinate estimates by fitting a first-degree
polynomial to these estimates in a moving-window scheme spanning all estimates.
The positions where the angular coefficient estimates are closest to zero
identify the plateaus of the horizontal coordinate estimates. The sample means
of these horizontal coordinate estimates are the best horizontal location
estimates. After mapping each plateau, our method takes as the best structural
index the one which yields the minimum correlation between the magnetic and the
estimated base level over each plateau. By using the estimated structural index
for each plateau, our approach extracts the vertical coordinate estimates over
the corresponding plateau. The sample mean of these estimates are the best
depth location estimates in our method. When applied to synthetic data, our
method yielded good performances even when the study area does not cover
entirely the anomalies. A test on real data over intrusions in the Goiás
Alkaline Province, Brazil, retrieved sphere-like sources suggesting three-
dimensional bodies.
