---
title: "Geophysical investigation of the Ceará rise in the brazilian equatorial margin – a continental crust or an oceanic crust?"
date: 2017-03-31
period: 2014-2017
author: victor
advisor: barbosa
coadvisor: oliveira-jr
institution: Observatório Nacional
pdf: victor-msc.pdf
level: MSc
sucupira: 5073110
layout: publication
---

# Abstract

The classification of the Brazilian Equatorial Margin concerning rifting,
lithosphere breakup and volcanism processes is still controversial.
Consequently, the origin and evolution of oceanic plateaus, highs, ridges and
rises located on rifted margins such as the Ceará Rise on the Brazilian
Equatorial Margin are misunderstood. The studies published over the past 40
years have suggested two geological scenarios for the Ceará Rise: a continental
and an oceanic crust. We have interpreted a 2D vertical cross section that
extends through the continental area down to the oceanic floor crossing the
Ceará Rise by using seismic and gravity data. In this cross section, the main
elements are: seawater, sediments, crust and mantle layers, continent-ocean
transition (COT), Moho interface and Ceará Rise. We assume that the water,
sediments and mantle layers are homogeneous media with known densities. We also
assume a lateral density variation within the crustal layer. Aiming at
investigating the position of the COT and the crustal density of the Ceará
Rise, the geometry of the sedimentary layer is deduced from our interpretation
of ultra-deep seismic imaging. We have investigated the Moho depth along this
cross section by using Airy isostatic compensation model and seismic
interpretation. The 2D gravity disturbance modeling computed by using either
the isostatic Moho or the seismic Moho allows investigating the COT and the
crustal density of the Ceará Rise. The gravity disturbance modeling from
isostatic Moho supports neither the Ceará Rise as a huge oceanic crust
accumulation nor an abrupt COT because it produces poor data fitting. However,
the isostatic Moho over the "normal" oceanic crust comprehended in the interval
from COT to the Ceará Rise yields an acceptable data fitting. Under the
hypotheses of continental crust to the Ceará Rise and of an exhumed
subcontinental mantle domain, the seismic Moho yields an acceptable data
fitting over the Ceará Rise and over the region from the continental area to
COT. However, the seismic Moho over the "normal" oceanic crust yields a poor
data fitting. We have proposed a hybrid modeling that joins the isostatic and
seismic Mohos under the hypothesis of continental crust to the Ceará Rise. In
such model, the isostatic Moho is used over the "normal" oceanic crust and the
seismic Moho is used over the Ceará Rise and from the continental area to COT.
Hence, the hybrid modeling supports the Brazilian Equatorial Margin as a
magma-poor rifted margin. Moreover, the hypotheses of the Ceará Rise as an
abandoned continental fragment and a COT with mantle exhumation must be
accepted because these hypotheses together with a hybrid modeling produce an
acceptable fitting of observed gravity disturbance.
